Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of the
Center. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lopez, and
today I'm Jane by Doctor Agnes Galar. She is
an associate professor in philosophy at the University of
Chicago, and she is the author of Open Socrates
The Case for Philosophical Life, the book we're going
to talk about today. So, Doctor Collard, welcome to
the show. It's a huge pleasure to have you
everyone. Thank you. So, uh let me ask you
first, what does Socrates represent? What kinds of questions
does he invite us to ask and try to
answer?
I think he invites us to ask. The kinds
of questions that we're already using the answers to
in the living of our lives. So as you
go through your life, um, you know, you make
choices, small ones, big ones, those choices are predicated
on a sense of like who you are, what
your goals are, what it is to be a
good person, and Socrates wants to ask you about
all that.
And what is it that in the book you
call Socrateism? What, what is that exactly?
So I use that word in a variety of
ways, but maybe um. Um, Maybe I'll, I'll give
one of the ways that I use it, um,
that is one way I use it is to
talk about a different form of ethics, um, but
maybe we're going to get there later in the
interview and I'll contrast it with other forms. But,
um, you know, another, another way to think about
Socrateism, um, is just a kind of optimism about
the project of answering these questions. Um, THAT is
that this is something that we can do. It's
possible for us, we can make progress on it.
We can get better at it. Um, THAT'S one
way to think about Socrateism at the most general
level.
Why are why questions so important? Can't we just
avoid them as much as possible or not?
We already do try to avoid them as much
as possible, and we are somewhat successful at that.
Um, And so, yes, that strategy works. Um, IT
works, uh, some of the time for everybody, and
maybe it works all of the time for some
people, and I think the people for whom it
works all of the time are not really gonna
make it very far in my book. They're basically
gonna get like halfway through the introduction and put
the book down and that's fine. Um, BUT I
think that there are quite a lot of people.
Who are haunted by these why questions of why
am I doing what I'm doing, and my book
is for them. Uh, AND they are the people
for whom the avoidance strategy has stopped working.
Right. So in the book you talk about uh
to toys and timely questions. What does he have
to say about them?
So I opened the book by um describing something
that happened to Tolstoy when he was about 50
and you know, it's taken from my description is
taken from something that he wrote about this time
period called confession. Uh, WHERE he Um, you know,
this time period in his life, he had already
written War and Peace and Anna Karenina. He was
living in this kind of big estate. Um, He
had a wife, a bunch of children, um, he's
an aristocrat, he is kind of a cult hero
in Russia. So pretty much the paragon of human
success, and he enters into this crisis period where
he cannot figure out whether his life is worth
living. In fact, he decides it isn't, uh, and
he becomes suicidal and the Um, what precipitates this
crisis is the thought that there are these questions
he's been putting off his whole life, and now
is the time to turn himself to the questions.
And uh and so he decides to do it
and as soon as he confronts the questions, as
soon as he allows himself to articulate them to
himself. He finds they're unanswerable, they're impossible, he'll never
make any progress. This is hopeless. And because these
are questions about sort of the meaning of his
own life or the point of the very activities
that he's been engaged in, why write novels? Why
care about the education of your children, and so
on. Um, HE decides that what he has exposed
is the meaninglessness of his own life, and that's
why it um makes him suicidal. And so one
way to think about. Sort of the Tolstoyan approach
is just that it's the opposite to Socratetism. If
Socratetism is the idea, there's a hope that we
can make progress on these questions. That's Tolstoy for
me serves as a foil or a contrast, where
Tolstoyan despair is the despair that these are, although
they're the most important questions and although life is
meaningless without answers to them, we can't actually inquire
into them.
So that, that is the main difference between the
Socratic approach and the Tolstoyen approach to untimely questions.
Yes, and I also, though I, I, I try
to go a little further to explain why, why
did Socrates end up so optimistic and Tolstoy so
pessimistic. Socrates, it's not just that he thinks you
can make progress. It's that he thinks trying to
do so is the happiest way to spend your
life. In fact, it's even the happiest way to
spend your death. So when he is on trial
for his life in the apology, he says, look,
if you guys put me to death and I
go down to Hades, I'm just gonna keep doing
what I've been doing. I'm gonna, I'm gonna start
interrogating, you know, Odysseus and Sisyphus, it's gonna be
amazing. Um, SO Socrates has this, it's not, it's
not just that like Socrates thinks something is possible,
it's that he has this really, um, Uh, kind
of profoundly cheerful, optimistic approach to what Tolstoy took
to be, um, kind of despairingly pointless. So it's
a really stark contrast, and what I try to,
uh, argue is that the explanation for this contrast
is just that Socrates realized that you have that
this is an activity to do with other people,
so that Tolstoy's philosophical despair is actually the correct
response to a situation in which you presuppose that
these inquiries would have to be done alone. You
actually can't do them alone, so he's right um
uh about something.
Mhm. How does one approach a question such as
how should I live?
Um, WELL, so I think most people approach it
by, um, avoiding it. That's one approach, um, and,
um. One thing I try to do in a
way is explain that that's not crazy. It's not
crazy to avoid that question because If you say
to yourself, how should I live, but you already
are living in some way, and you clearly think
you should be living in that way, otherwise you
wouldn't be, then it's sort of like you're mouthing
some words. Um, YOUR mouth, it's like I, I
could say, what is 2 + 2? I can
say that. I mean, I can make those sounds
and I can make it sound like a question
by raising my voice at the end. Um, BUT
I'm not actually asking a question. The reason I'm
not asking a question is that I think I
know the answer, and so I can't, I can't
ask questions when I think I know the answer.
And so since we think we know the answer
to the question, how should I live, we must
think we know the answer because we're doing stuff,
we can't pose the question to ourselves. And so
that's why I called these untimely questions. What I
mean by untimely is just that they come at
the wrong time because it's supposed to go like
this question and answer. It's not supposed to go
answer that question. But on timely questions, it does
go like that. We get the answers before we
get the questions, and that means that when the
questions show up, they are in some way impossible.
That is, they're impossible for us to pose to
ourselves. But I think we can pose them to
other people. How should you live? Um, THAT'S a
possible question. And so the Socratic answer to how
should you approach that question is ask it to
somebody else or be receptive of somebody else asking
it to you.
Right. Did Socrates have an ethics? I mean, can
we find an ethics in Socrates in any way
or not?
So I think that um. Many people who read
Socrates would answer no, that is they read him
sort of um negatively as a purely critical or
destructive thinker, as somebody who went around showing that
the people that he interacted with didn't know as
much as they thought they did. And that that's
all that he did. Um, Cicero reads him that
way. Lots of lots of people have read Socrates
that way. I think Kierkegaard, I think also reads
Socrates that way. Um, And um maybe a way
to describe the project of the book is to
offer an alternative reading of Socrates, where he has
a positive view. That is, he's not just trying
to show that nobody around him knows anything, he's
actually trying to make progress towards knowledge and to
propose his own. Um, FORM of ethics, and I
think the way to see that is to think
about the sort of um, menu of ethical theories
that is out there, um, and here I'm referring
to, you know, from this, uh, western tradition originating
in, uh, ancient Athens. So if you think about
the menu of ethical theories that we have today
in the West, I think most people would agree
that um the main items on the menu are
first, utilitarianism. Um, WHICH says that you should act
in such a way that the consequences of your
action are going to bring about the best kind
of you know, expected results. So, um, that'll often
be in terms of pleasure or happiness or utility
if we want to be neutral about whatever the
good state of affairs is, you're trying to bring
that about, you're trying to bring as much of
it about as possible. That's utilitarianism. Um, SO that's
one item on the menu. It's still a popular
ethical theory. You see it very, um, you know,
explicitly espoused by effective altruists, by economists more generally,
um, but, um, also by, um, you know, People
who are have to think about the things like
medical ethics or whatever, right? Another uh ethical theory
that is, I think, a real contender today is
Kantianism or deontology. Um, WHICH says that what you
should do is treat people with respect or fulfill
your duty or follow the moral law. Irrespectively of
whether that brings about the best kinds of consequences.
Um, AND, um, you know, this kind of ethical
theory says, look, there are principles that we should
follow, um, that is, we should behave in a
certain kind of law-like way, the rationality of our,
um, Uh Of our uh behavior, it should be
the rationality of law, and we adhere to that
law even if it doesn't bring about the right
the the most um desired consequences. OK, and, and
we can think about if we go back to
utilitarianism for like the rationality there is the calculative
rationality of maximizing. So both Danology and utilitarianism are
telling you to be rational, but they mean different
things by the word rational. The one means maximize
um. A certain kind of calculative maximization and the
other says um follow a law that we can
all um apply to ourselves. There's a third ethical
theory that's um I think less prominent than either
of those two, and in a way more recent,
um, which is neo Aristotelian virtue ethics, and it
tells you don't maximize good consequences, don't try to
follow moral laws, instead, exercise the virtues. So behave
as the just, generous, witty, moderate, etc. PERSON would
behave. Um, THIS person, um, Aristotle calls the Fronomos,
the wise person. So, so, um, exemplify the virtues.
OK. Has a long digression, but I think it's
um it's useful to see Socratic ethics in that
field. That is, those are some those are the
ethical theories, but that's what we've got. Um, AS
far as I know, again, at least in the
west, there's nothing else. There are no other suggestions
as to what could be the goal that you're
aiming for in your actions. Uh, SOME people want
to mix and match them, OK, but these are
the, these are the options. Um, I think Socratic
ethics can claim to be a positive ethical theory
insofar as it gives you an alternative goal to
those three goals, and I think it does. Um,
SO Socratic ethics as I understand it is an
inquisitive ethics, which is to say it's directed at
knowledge. So it says, doesn't say maximize utility, doesn't
say um treatable with respect, doesn't say exercise virtues,
it says acquire knowledge, uh, and it says that's
what you should have in mind. In everything that
you do.
And uh what is a bad life for Socrates?
So, um, uh, we can, what we can do
is we can, we can even spell out the
contrast, right? So a bad life for the utilitarian
is one that like brings about bad consequences for
you and for others, it like brings about lots
of pain. Um, A bad life for the Kantian
is one where you violate the moral law, say
you're lying or you make lying promises. A bad
life for the virtue ethicist is one where you
are ignoble, where your behavior is sort of ugly,
um, in the, in the distinctively that it's not
Kaon, it's Iron, it's shame you behave shamefully. A
bad life for the Socratic is an ignorant life.
Uh, AND is happiness for Socrates different from morality?
No. Uh, SO that's in fact, that's not a
special thing about Socrates. Um, I think that, um,
Um, The idea that happiness could come apart from
morality is a Christian or post-Christian idea. I don't
think you see it um in the ancient world
at all. So this is not just Um, Socrates,
it's also Plato, it's also Aristotle, it's also the
Stoics, it's the epicure. They all had just one
concept there where we have two, so he's, yes,
if they're the same for Socrates, but they're also
the same for lots of other thinkers.
So in the book at a certain point you
talk about the values of inquiry, open-mindedness, and truth
seeking, and you also explain how and why they
are also paradoxes. So, first tell us about the
values themselves and then perhaps we can get into
why they are also paradoxes.
Yeah, so, um, What I say in the book
is that the Socratic method, like if you say
you want to be Socratic, what should you do?
Um, THE answer is you should inquire open-mindedly, seeking
the truth and avoiding falsity. Yeah. And um that
sounds easy. That sounds like that sounds obvious, like
you didn't need Socrates to tell you that, but
it turns out that that's not easy or obvious,
that actually there's a paradox about inquiry, there's a
paradox about open-mindedness, and there's a paradox about truth
seeking, and I'll, I'll sketch each of them. There's
a lot that goes into the articulation of these
paradoxes in the book, so I'm gonna like sketch
them each and you can ask me follow up
questions if you want, but The paradox of inquiry
is Mino's paradox. So it is, how can you
inquire into what you don't know. I feel like
Tolstoy is very compelled by this, that is. Say
I don't know what virtue is and I want
to look for virtue, um. How do I even
get started? And if I, if I found it,
how would I know that I found the thing
I was looking for? I mean, if I don't
know what I'm looking for, how am I going
to find it? Um, THAT'S, that's the paradox about
inquiry. The paradox about open-mindedness is, it's open mindedness.
Um, Looks like being willing to um acknowledge that
you're wrong, that's open-mindedness. And if we distinguish that
from being willing to acknowledge that you were wrong,
or that you might be wrong in the future,
Um, it looks like something very, very difficult because
it looks like seeing that I am wrong, is
seeing that I have a false belief, but that
means that I have the belief and then I
think it's false. But it looks like part of
what it is to have a belief is to
think that that belief is true. If I think
it's sunny outside, then I also think it's true
that it's sunny outside. If I think that belief
of mine is false, then I have to stop
thinking that it's sunny outside. So it looks like
Um, you can't really Um, Have a belief, but
think that belief is false. Uh AND um this
is uh often goes by the name of Moore's
paradox, OK, because GE Moore most famously called attention
to it. And then, um, the final paradox is
pursue the truth and avoid falsehood, and the paradox
there is sort of one of my own articulation.
I call it the gadfly midwife paradox. So what
I say is that Um, Socrates. Sometimes he seems
like a gadfly, that is, uh, he's often described
that way, especially by his interlocutors. What they say
is that he's a critical negative person, that he
is trying to destroy all of their claims to
wisdom, and that all he's ever doing is sort
of avoiding falsehood. Um, AND, um, making them feel
lost, making them feel numb, like they can't, their
mouth is numb, they can't speak, their words go
around in circles, so he's a kind of fundamentally
destructive character. Um, BUT then in other places, Socrates
presents himself as a midwife as this kind of
positive, truth oriented, um, person who is, um, building
theories and being constructive. And the, the difficulty there
is, how can you be destructive and constructive at
the same time? How can you um pursue the
truth and avoid falsity at the same time?
OK, and so according to Socrates, how can we
solve these paradoxes? What are the solutions to each
of them?
So, um, the The solution to um the inquiry
paradox involves distinguishing between questions and problems, and um
seeing that Um, we have, um, a special kind
of Inquisitive attitude, um, namely a question where, um,
to have a question is already to have Um,
the thing that will grow up into the answer.
So a question relates to an answer differently than
a problem relates to a solution. Um, THE solution
dissolves the problem, whereas the question sort of becomes
the answer. And so the question itself is kind
of a guide that you follow like a thread
that leads you to the answer. Um, THAT'S a
metaphor because I don't want to go very deep
into the details of the arguments of that chapter,
but um. The um the way in which you
can see that you're wrong about something, so this
is the solution to Moore's paradox. Is that another
person can serve as a mirror, so they can
show you that you're wrong. And you can see
that you're wrong, as Socrates says in the mirror
of their soul. So he says that, you know,
it's hard to see yourself. Like I can see,
um, you know, this pencil or something, I can
look at it, but it's not so easy for
me to see myself. Um, AND in order to
see myself, I need a reflective surface, um, and
he says, well, the way you should think about
inquiry is that another person is like a reflective
surface for you, and you get to see now
not your physical appearance, but your soul reflected in
theirs. Um, AND then the final one, how do
you seek the truth and avoid falsity? Socrates's solution
is that you give those two jobs to two
different people and have them coordinate that activity. Um,
SO Socrates's job is to avoid falsehood, but his
interlocutor's job is to have a truth, and It's,
you know, it's to answer the question, even if,
if you don't know the answer, just guess. You're
supposed to have some truth, if you're the person
Socrates is talking to, and then his job is
to examine what you say, and by examining it,
um, Uh To be helping you develop it in
the direction of improving it, and together you're inquiring.
So, what is then the importance of dialogue and
working with other people? I mean, I guess that
dialogue is very well illustrated in Plato's works where
Socrates plays one of the characters, but what is
the importance of it?
So all three of these paradoxes are in fact
at some deeper level resolved in the same way.
I didn't make it so clear about the questioner,
but it's like the one with the question, it's
crucial that someone else plays the role of answer,
right? So, namely that you have to, um, you
need another person, the other person who will be
the answer of your questions or the person who
poses questions to answer, the person who will serve
as the mirror, the person who will adopt either
the role of um having choose the role of
avoiding falsehoods. So, um. The, um, you know, maybe
the most Um, efficient way to put the thesis
of my book is that it argues that the
kind of thinking that is at stake in these
untimely questions is one that you actually can't do
by yourself. That is, there are problems you have
you cannot think about by yourself, and you need
other people in order to think about them. So
the, the importance of other people is that they're
unnecessary condition on this process.
So, uh, toward the end of the book, you
talk about three different domains where Socrates claims expertise,
namely politics, love, and death. I mean, before we
get into each of them, because I have a
question for each of them later, um, let me
ask you a more general question. How is it
that someone like Socrates who expressed ignorance so often?
Uh, CAN claim himself to be an expert in
such important domains of human experience. I mean, how
can the practice of Socratic ignorance be a kind
of mastery of the deepest of things?
I think that Um, The key here is that
Socrates thinks that in these domains. What is tripping
us up is our assumption of knowledge. So, um,
the reason why we do so badly in the
domains of love, death, and politics is that we
think we know a bunch of things that we
don't know. And so if you contrast some areas
of human endeavor that um where this might not
be true, let's say um technology, right? We don't
tend to think we know how to create forms
of technology that we don't yet have. That's pretty
important to innovation. Um, AND so if you look
at like human progress over the past 2500 years,
we've made tons of progress with technological innovations. There
was very little in the ancient world. I mean,
they had certain, you know, rudimentary farming stuff and
I mean, yeah, they had like wheels and stuff,
and armor and weapons and writing some stuff for
writing. But not even like printing press, which is
not that complicated. Um, SO they were um very
backwards in relation to us from the point of
view of technology, and so humanity has been able
to make a lot of progress in an area
where it didn't assume that it already knew. But
in the areas where we have persistently assumed that
we know the answers, love, death, and politics, I
think we have not made so much progress. We're
not doing that much better than people in Socrates'
world at Um, conducting ourselves in these three domains
well, um, and, um, we, I think continue to
realize that we routinely screw up our love lives,
our politics, and how we deal with that.
What is the socratizing move that you talk about
in the book?
Yeah, so, um. The way that I introduced it
is to contrast it with a certain kind of
move that resembles it but goes in the opposite
direction, which is the sort of reductive move that
became popular sort of in the 19th and 20th
century, um, with thinkers like um Freud and Marx
and Foucault and Nietzsche and um. Um, I mean
you can go back further, you can even maybe
go to all the way back to Hobbs, um,
where they say something like, A bunch of stuff
that you thought was really elevated and noble is
actually nothing other than something that you kind of
despise. So, uh for Ford, it's like everything that
you didn't think was all about sex actually is
all about sex, or, um, you know, for Foucault
it might be power for Nietzsche, it's gonna be
rezontima for Marx, it's gonna be class. um. So
you get a certain um. Uh, REDUCTIVE analysis of
um the human domain. And where at least a
bunch of things sort of point downward. And what
I argue is that Socrates makes a move like
that. In fact, he's the kind of originator of
this move, but his version of it goes up.
So he thinks that a bunch of things that
you didn't think were all about knowledge and inquiry
actually are, um, that is, uh, sort of all
roads point upward to the pursuit of knowledge and
Um, you know, so for instance, you might think
that you care about the health of your body,
you might be upset that you're sick, but really
what that is is a concern for the health
of your soul, and what makes your soul healthy
is knowledge. So health of the body points to
health of your soul because that's the kind of
health that's um that's even a condition on the
significance of the health of your body. That would
be one example.
So let's take a each of the three domains
I mentioned earlier, love, politics, and death intern. What
did, what did Socrates have to say about the
art of love and what does this method demand
from her, from us here?
So Socrates thought that what we were looking for
from another person in um a Um, in a
scenario of love, is a certain kind of, um,
transcendent, wonderful, perfect goodness. On the one hand, that
would never leave us. So, um, we want someone
who's, you know, Amazing, incredible, inspiring, has all the
good properties. And we want them to like commit
to us and stick with us. Mhm. And I
think he thought those things do not, um, Do
not go together when it comes to humans. That
is, if what you want is a really good
human being, then you're gonna have to be willing,
for instance, to trade up when you meet a
better one, and for also have them to trade
up since that's also what they're looking for if
they meet someone better than you. Um, AND if
what you really want is someone who will stick
to you no matter what, well, then you're gonna
have to settle for someone who's not necessarily perfect,
and they're gonna settle for you. Um, SO attachment,
Socrates thinks goes along with settling and idealization goes
along with substitution. He thinks the solution is to
recognize that you don't really love other people. Other
people aren't the proper objects of your love. Other
people are like a vehicle by which you love
something. That really is ideal, and you can be
attached to it as an ideal, namely the ideal.
Um, AND, uh, so Socrates thinks the proper way
to understand. The art of love is to understand
that the other person is a participant in both
of your shared quest for this ideal, rather than
trying to identify with them with the ideal.
How about the craft of politics? How do we
approach it through the Socratic method?
So I think the key, I talk a lot
about different aspects of politics, um, that's the longest
part of this section, but maybe the key point
to make is that um The, the fighting that
we do in politics, um, that is the sort
of characteristic way in which people politically experience other
people as their enemies who they have to defeat.
That that's actually um In distortion, it's a misplaced
desire to argue with them. So this is another
instance of the socrateizing move. Fighting is really nothing
but arguing, that is, it's a bad version of
an imperfect version of argumentation. And what we really
deeply want to do with our political enemies is
not defeat them, but refute them or have them
refute us, prove them right. Um, AND that politics
is never going to work until people understand that
what lies at the heart of it are not
conflicts of interest, but disagreements.
So, and finally to tackle the less domain, how
can we prepare for death through his method? I
mean, how should we think about death, approach death
and also prepare for it?
So one thing that I think Socrates, one kind
of reorientation that Socrates encourages in relation to death
is even to rethink what it means to prepare
for death. So prepare for death doesn't mean prepare
for the last 5 minutes of your life. The
last 5 minutes of your life in the world
we live in are not likely to be very
conscious, for example, um. Uh, AND so, um, what
preparing for death really means from a Socratic point
of view is living your whole life in the
light of and in the under with the understanding
that you're going to die and not living with
a kind of avoidance of it. And um what
I argue in the book is that what that
really means is confronting one specific fear of death.
So in the book I say there are two
fears of death, or two ways you could fear
death. The maybe more standard one is what I
call FOMO. It's a fear of missing out on
all of the joys and pleasures and goods that
you have experienced during your life and that you
would like to keep experiencing. So you would like
life as you've known it to keep going and
to get more and more of the same. And
you're upset that you're not gonna get more and
more of the same, that's FOMO. I think Socrates
has relatively little to say about that. Though I
think other philosophers, the epicureans, Lucretius, they have stuff
to say. So turn to them if you're interested
in that. But I think what he does is
call your attention to another fear of death, a
different fear. I call this onehona, fear of never
arriving, which is the fear that um You could
be right now engaged in a project that will
be cut off by your death, so that it's
not that you're not gonna get a good that
you've already had, you're not gonna get a good
you've never had because you're working towards it. And
this kind of fear should be familiar to anyone
who takes on a significant project. Um, A significant
project is one that might take years or decades
or it might take centuries. Um, IF you want
to be part of, you know, the cure for
cancer or even the cure for some particular kind
of cancer, that's not gonna be completed in your
lifetime, and you might think, well, why should I
even do it? I'm not gonna see the end.
I'm not gonna see the solution. Um, uh, LOTS
of scientific projects are just bigger than a human
life, and, um, The fear of never arriving could
inhibit you from kind of hurling yourself down the
road of those projects. And so Socrates thinks that
philosophy is a practice of death and dying. It
prepares you for death because you're practicing, dying every
day as a philosopher, and the way that you
practice is That you start to embark on some
conversation with somebody and You know you only have,
say, an hour, and you know that the conversation
is gonna end before you arrive at the answer,
but you still have the conversation, you still try,
and then it gets cut off and you have
to stop and you go home and you go
to bed and you wake up and next get
up the next morning, you do it again. That's
like experiencing death. Every day, um, that's practicing for
death. Um, IT'S practicing for not allowing your Um,
kind of energy and optimism and inquisitive, um, hopefulness
to be inhibited by the fact that you yourself
won't see the answers to your questions.
OK, so one final question then, uh, what would
you say are the main messages of your book?
I mean, on what grounds do you make your
case for a philosophical life?
So I think that um my main message is
just that it's possible. Um, THAT is, I think
a really reasonable response to my book might be.
OK, so I could do this. I could live
a life of inquiry, and um it's, it's realistic,
etc. BUT why should I? Um, AND I think
that that's a reasonable response because my book is
really trying to trying to add an item to
a menu. Um, IT doesn't take up the project
of defending this item as better than the other
items that are on the menu. The other ethical
theories, I think, really still are on the menu.
Um, BUT I think that Even just showing that
it's possible is very powerful because most people don't
respond the way that I just did. Almost everybody
has responded to this book saying like, no, no,
you can't, you can't actually make any, just like
Tolstoy did, right? You can't make any progress. This
is impossible. You can't do it. This is not
a life. Um, IT'S uh it's, it's impossible, which
is almost like conceding to me, look, if it
were possible, of course everybody should do it. Um,
SO I've been struck by the degree to which
people will concede to me the big point that
I haven't even argued for and push me on
the point that I think I do a lot
to try to establish, which is this is perfectly
realistic and something that everyone could do and you're
just choosing not to do it every day. Um,
THE reason it's not happening is because of your
choices, not because of anything impossible about it.
Great. So the book is again open Socrates, the
case for a Philosophical Life. I'm leaving a link
to it in the description of the interview. And
Doctor Collard, just before we go apart from the
book, where can people find you and your work
on the internet?
I used to say Twitter, but I'm spending less
and less time there these days. Uh, I don't
have a website, I guess I should. I don't
know if you Google me, I'm always writing new
things, but they're all in different places, so I
think if you Google me you'll see the last
thing I wrote. That's probably the best strategy.
OK. So thank you so much for taking the
time to come on the show. It's been a
real pleasure to talk with you. Thank
you. Thanks for having me.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Nights Learning and
Development done differently, check their website at Nights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters
Pergo Larsson, Jerry Mullerns, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyche Olaf,
Alex Adam Castle, Matthew Whitting Barno, Wolf, Tim Hollis,
Erika Lenny, John Connors, Philip Fors Connolly. Then the
Matri Robert Windegaruyasi Zu Mark Nes calling in Holbrookfield
governor Michael Stormir Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnunseroro and
Hal Herzognun Macha Joan Lays and the Samuel Curriere,
Heinz, Mark Smith, Jore, Tom Hummel, Sardus France David
Sloan Wilson, Asila dearraujoro and Roach Diego Londonorea. Yannick
Punteran Rosmani Charlotte blinikol Barbara Adamhn Pavlostaevskynalebaa medicine, Gary
Galman Samov Zaledrianei Poltonin John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward
Hall Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franca Bartolotti Gabrielon Scorteus
Slelisky, Scott Zachary Fish Tim Duffyani Smith John Wieman.
Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georgianneau, Luke Lovai Giorgio
Theophanous, Chris Williamson, Peter Vozin, David Williams, the Augusta,
Anton Eriksson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie Martinez, Coralli
Chevalier, bungalow atheists, Larry D. Lee Junior, Old Heringbo.
Sterry Michael Bailey, then Sperber, Robert Gray, Zigoren, Jeff
McMann, Jake Zu, Barnabas radix, Mark Campbell, Thomas Dovner,
Luke Neeson, Chris Storry, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin Galbert, Jessica
Nowicki, Linda Brandon, Nicholas Carlsson, Ismael Bensleyman. George Eoriatis,
Valentin Steinman, Perrolis, Kate van Goller, Alexander Aubert, Liam
Dunaway, BR Masoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular John Nertner, Ursula
Gudinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsoff Sean Nelson, Mike Levine,
and Jos Net. A special thanks to my producers.
These are Webb, Jim, Frank Lucas Steffinik, Tom Venneden,
Bernard Curtis Dixon, Benedic Muller, Thomas Trumbull, Catherine and
Patrick Tobin, Gian Carlo Montenegroal Ni Cortiz and Nick
Golden, and to my executive producers Matthew Levender, Sergio
Quadrian, Bogdan Kanivets, and Rosie. Thank you for all.